okay great hey everyone so thank you to
the VP for that awesome introduction to
the poppy in general what I wanted to
talk about was focus on where were apps
as it projects in great part in how we
develop some of this stuff and think
through the priorities that we have
ahead so that we can set up ourselves to
pretty much scale it a lot of
development and get to solve some of
those really really hard hard issues
right so we're talking about in in the
long term we hope to bring about drastic
improvements to how people use
networking in their applications and
platforms and systems and it's totally
achievable but it will require a lot of
work on very specific areas that um
we're getting ourselves set up to do but
we're not fully there yet so I want to
talk a bit about how we can we can get
there I wouldn't touch a bit on kind of
vision and mission I think they've
already covered this excessively so I
can't don't have to spend a lot of time
on this at all
this shared a lot with ipfs just simply
because this is where a lot of the
project came out of but over time it's
gonna become kind of its own identity
but I think this slide still captures
that the idea is really well we want a
networking stack the supports the end
use the end style distributed
environments where you're not really
depending on any kind of intermediaries
at all so the internet works that way
the web doesn't and then a lot of other
platforms don't i OT doesn't sort some
parts of IT work that way others don't
and it's pretty important for a lot of
how we expect computing to work in the
future or like the good visions of what
we want computing to work like in the
future to make sure that our networking
stacks properly work in that way and our
applications aren't accidentally
smuggling in other models that are much
more restrictive and make our
applications fail in circumstances where
you know they become really where it
would be extremely important for them to
work so think of disaster scenarios if
right now there was a major disaster in
a city a lot of the normal
communication applications that people
use to talk to each other would suddenly
stop working a lot of the normal
centralized messaging systems depend
highly on a set of conditions working
and if any one of those links in the
chain breaks the entire system comes
down so that's not how the internet was
designed
that's how modern web applications and
mobile systems work and so we need to go
back back to the old designs and you
know kind of like unwind and go down a
different path and so a lot of that is
thinking through the hard problems in
building those large-scale platforms to
work like the internet which is much
harder and then think through how can we
build software libraries to enable those
applications and systems to do it easily
it's very easy today to build and depend
on cloud systems and to not do those
normal architectures but it wasn't easy
at the beginning people put in a lot of
work and effort to make all of those
libraries so that it is easy today we
just have to do that before the
peer-to-peer type of things worth just
keep this in mind I think people were
around the last few days already kind of
sell this but just keep this in mind as
you think about the PvP in general think
about the probably vast majority of the
internet doesn't have the level of
connectivity that the main cities in the
world have it's highly mobile and that's
something that we need to make more of a
focus in our projects and then we don't
really describe these the this set of
problems and so on
or recover all of this these are the all
the web problems from a profess a lot of
them are just about the networking stack
and how data is structured on top of
that platform same thing they're
probably a lot more projects here but
lipid apiece gaining in in kind of is
growing as a system that people depend
on and so we hope to you know a year
have that grid expand quite a bit
there's already a lot of that are not
represented there but more will grow we
wanted to mention that there was kind of
like an inversion interestingly where
where I peeled II suddenly
might actually become useful tool if it
appears as a library this is you know an
attempt at a mission not quite not quite
there yet
but we'll think through we keep
workshopping this I hope but really
think of making a networking stack a
modular networking stack to make robust
peer-to-peer systems easy to build it is
not easy to build robust peer-to-peer
systems today at all so things like
process addressing has to be covered I
think a a key component of this modular
idea is to get ourselves into position
where each of these things which are
substantially difficult in other words
each of these things which are
substantially difficult to to do so you
know think of crypto channels or
distributed record stores or things like
that or peer routing in massive scales
when you're dealing with billions of
processes those things are hard enough
already and they it is important for us
as a project to get ourselves in a
position where we can attack each of
those problems or you know a subset of
them kind of independently so when
people think about implementing
something like a choral DHD or you know
some of the newer DHD that have been
designed in the last five years they can
just focus on that as a problem and use
whatever toolkit there is in lipid EP
but then provide whatever interface they
need to so that other systems can start
depending on that and right now
development in lipid V is highly
integrated across a lot of things and so
it's kind of difficult for for people to
do that
but it's getting a lot better so I think
this year is way better than last year
and I think next year it'll be even
easier I think I'd be interested in
talking to people around this in the
next couple of days about if you
implemented a specific version of this
for example the quick transport how much
did you have to worry about the rest of
the lipid EP interfaces and if you know
it's any kind of significant measure at
all then that's a problem that we that
we should fix so that we want to get our
development to a point where it is easy
for people to drop into a specific piece
and and just build a new building block
and then add contributed to the kit so I
wanted to show some
highlights we split out planning from
from ipfs so we've been on this like fun
going effort to like split out the
library and and so on and so it required
effort to just make sure that like
really they're distinct projects and
planning is happening separately and
though there's a lot of integration and
sharing of people we really have two two
different threads and this will help
especially all the other people that are
coming to depend on p2p to participate
in the p2p ecosystem without having to
worry about understanding or thinking
about how a BFS organizes itself
implementations it's exciting to have
rust added to the sets this was over the
last year and I think also over the last
year Jas got to a level of connectivity
and support that the remarkable
improvements especially in the browser
and so on and go got massively more
performant and also got quick so that's
a you'll hear about more more of that
later on we also you know as we
structured ourselves we're kind of
beginning the formation of working
groups similar to what I've invested
last quarter now we're kind of doing it
for a lipid P whoops that's the site BFS
fail let me fix that no I'll fix it
later
one waste your time so you know we have
these kind of working groups budding
there may be more later I'll talk about
some of some of them so with that I
wanted to talk about what we should
think about focusing on in the next
couple of quarters and my camp has
already done a lot of thinking and and
structuring of this and he'll talk about
later at some point in the comments
probably but I wanted to give a preview
of some of that and maybe even project
to some ideas that we might think about
it further beyond so in 2019 I think I
wanted to bring back from earlier in the
week if you were around and if not then
great is that when you think about
building a system you have all these
different dimensions to worry about and
get concerns concerned with and each
take a lot of times and you know each of
these dimensions like features break out
into ton more and you know you need you
just growing the the volume of cover
over all of these different dimensions
when you are building a software it just
consumes a lot of time and so getting to
a really good level of completion with
on any of these dimensions it takes a
while and so if you want to ship
something you have to like take a lot of
shortcuts and so we did that then you
know we got things usable and and
dependable to some degree but now we
need to keep rolling that up and keep
diving deep into each of these
dimensions and improving things so
leveling up or docks leveling up or
future sets
leveling up testing and QA leveling up
performance level specs and so on and
this isn't a you know we work on this
for a while and and you know we get it
to the you will max it out all the way
to the end and like we're set this is
you know a continual thing that we think
of it kind of like a spiral we're like
over time we're like growing the the
cover and as our team grows then we can
paralyze then we can different groups
can can attack different vectors one
other thing is that because lipid apiece
highly modular we could each of the
different components whether it's
different implementations or different
sub pieces can proceed on their own at
their own pace and their own rate to
some degree except for the things that
are dependent on as a group so for
example things like interfaces things
like testing things like documentation
and examples and communications and
websites and and so on all of those
common things have to be great okay
first so that each of the independent
module implementations can kind of
follow their own trajectory and not have
to be blocked by some some dependency
but encourages to think about about it
like this because somebody working on a
new transport or somebody working on a
new DHD or somebody working on new pops
of implementation should have everything
underneath that they need to build their
implementation and so on and you know
proceed through their their own
development cycle without having to be
blocked by by the underlying components
and so and so they can leverage some
shared infrastructure so being able to
run really large-scale network tests or
having a standard way of writing the
docs or things like that
we've gotta get getting that also useful
to think about the Colonel shell and
commands kind of structure from Unix
this is pretty similar to how the PDP
works right so you can think of the the
kernel of Lapita P being the addressing
and the switching both right now circuit
searching in the future we might bring
we will bring packet switching maybe
someday package to switching that's a
story for another time getting that that
is effectively the kernel and some of
the interfaces defined kind of like the
sis calls in a sense and then the shell
and and you know the interface that
people used to to use this thing end up
being like all of the individual like
module interfaces and so people think of
like mounting drivers into the kernel
like you think of each of the transports
or each of the HDS and so on as mounting
a new driver into the kernel flippity p
and then ideally systems can just build
on top but but again this the coupling
makes it easy for us to proceed in
development in one area without having
to worry about the rest of the project I
think right now we're not in a good
we're in--okay place but we need to get
better so levelling up with a lot of
things and scaling our development so um
yeah you know one objective that we have
for 2018 is making a lipid be a first
class project that means you know some
working group structure or a core
working group to kind of coordinate all
of it clearly articulated requirements
for different implementations a great
roadmap that's something we're we're
working on and also increasing the the
full the amount of full-time dedicated
people then this around quality
dependability this I want to talk more
with people about this but just leveling
up our our work on these kinds of things
you know getting correctness higher
performance completeness scalability and
so on and I want to touch on a couple of
things here one is visualizing protocols
can become extremely useful to
understand how to how to work with them
so one project i'm i'm really excited to
think about
during this year and either doing this
year or next year it's building a
structure for people to be able to
visualize things like a DHT or things
like the stream multiplexers and so on
here's an example of a visualization of
a protocol this is spot point and this
is a visualization that's generated
straight from the log output of a point
notes so those are six back windows
they're all running a little bit of heat
and we take the log output of those and
consumed create those logs and then just
visualize logs and so we get a trace of
what it looks like to to have a protocol
run and it's built in such a way that
this visualization is built in such a
way that we can just write all of those
log outputs to a file and then just play
them back in the future now you can
imagine things like controls here being
yours like free is somewhere and be like
oh what's happening here like what is
this weird message that are like I'd
never expected and there's some amount
of like custom visualization they have
to do per protocol like this is a
visualization of falcone where you have
a chain and you have like the market the
storage market structure and so on
something like a DHT would look pretty
different but some of the components
might be reusable and at least the the
interest the architecture of the you
know take all these log outputs and
filter them in such a way and you know
that kind of stuff is already usable so
this is effectively a lipid EP tool this
isn't really about quite specific tool
the other thing around testing is that
we need to start doing really
large-scale tests like we need to get to
a point where we are testing millions of
nodes and get ourselves all set up so we
can do testing with billions of notes
this is planetlab I don't know if you're
familiar with it it's a large scale
testing environment that I kima built a
couple decades ago and more most
academic peer to peer systems were
tested on this things like coral things
like academic probably and so on
and we also have another version of this
the right atlas for example ships a lot
of like little devices all over the
world that are constantly measuring like
different pieces of the internet and so
here are two examples of groups that
deployed a little bit of hardware all
over the world and connected it in a
network that allowed them to then ship
software to test out things
so this is another project that we might
consider doing maybe this year
potentially next year around getting our
own testing infrastructure to a point
where it is easy for somebody who's
writing a new DHT to say hey you know
what I want to test out how this is new
we think this thing works really well in
simulation we think it works really well
and like our you know 10,000 node tests
or whatever in a cloud environment but
we want to test it out in the real world
and get ourself to a point where we can
do this where we can ship out and and
maybe make millions of virtual nodes
across this network around the planet
and then test it in earnest and it's
only when we do this that we do get
things that scale to the to the demands
of you know modern applications with
billions of users the other thing I
wanted to mention is research so the I
we tend to think a lot about you know
this pipeline of going from ideas
through specs encoding and so on and a
lot of lip yupi work is pushing the
research boundaries and is pushing the
frontiers of what we know about
peer-to-peer systems and already today
we do a lot of stuff that we need to
kind of inform the world about so this
might mean writing papers
this might mean collaborations with with
other groups there's an enormous amount
of interest in peer to peer and
decentralized systems that goes all the
way back to you know late 90s and early
2000s and in some cases much further
back but there's a lot there was a lot
of important activity happening across a
bunch of universities in that time
period and that a lot of that just fell
flat it was used in the early period
appear applications of the unifor you
know the first peer-to-peer wave but
with the kind of there's a whole bunch
of reasons why but there was effectively
a peer-to-peer winter and a lot of those
those groups stopped working on this
stuff but many of their their
implementations and solutions were
extremely good they just didn't get
built they died somewhere here right so
a lot of the really good peer to peer
ideas and things that are going to make
peer to peer system scale are just you
know stuck in the ideas or or paper
domain where there were great results
achieved and then those groups moved on
to other things so it's time for us to
go and and figure out what those might
be and bring them in
like actually get get them to a point
where you can use them and another cent
in other places it's connecting with the
people that we're doing that work and
saying hey we now have a good structure
to build and test all of these things
and you know yes the Entenmann's
principle got violated when we like made
the TCP and UDP protocols be like the
only things and like you know you
couldn't really make new transfer
protocols but we're working on like
fixing that and like now it with low p2p
you can totally deploy a new transfer
protocol and you don't have to worry
about you know you just overlay it over
UDP in it and you can build applications
on top of it so all of that kind of
stuff can revive an enormous amount of
activity in all over those groups
because if we give them an easy way to
test out implementations and then ship
them into real live applications that's
gonna generate a ton of activity in this
world and so this is something we should
think about this you know next to my
quarters and set ourselves up for in
2019 hitting it really well and by the
way it's never quite linear right like
it's always very messy connectivity here
another thing is you know addressing the
needs of downstream projects so this
means figure out what all the downstream
projects needs so part of that's part of
the goal of this event to understand
what as a user live to be what do you
need out of it and you know build a
registered registry to track those use
cases and means and so on so that when
we tackle those things in a quarterly
basis we figure out what to what to
prioritize on what to do and another
thing I want to talk about is is scaling
up development so we've already started
to form working groups we want to double
down on that we want to sort of
measuring what we're doing right and
wrong there better planning and
scheduling and all that kind of stuff
increasing the resources we are doing
things like the journal Club principle I
think we covered coral we covered a few
other things that are relevant to peer
to peer if you want to get involved in
that please do and I wanted to touch on
how to speed up our development so I
think different from other systems like
ipfs and others were a lot of the system
is it needs to be highly
integrated other than the p2p core or
kernel you don't really have to think
very much about syncing with other
groups while you're billing building an
independent implementation of a subset
of these these protocols so you know
each of these things can proceed in
parallel I kind of follow its own own
timeline and often doesn't require the
context of understanding of getting
everything else so instead of thinking
of little to be advancing as a you know
unit with you know a group of people
having to have high contexts and
everything it's really a bunch of little
modules advancing at their own rate and
once you know some of them reach a
certain level of completion then they
get pulled into like the implement the
working implementations so this suggests
that we can you know organize our work
around these things much better in that
we could we could describe things like
hey we need a Bluetooth transport and
here's what you two look like here's the
interface it needs to match and then
kind of put that out as a as a project
description that that needs to happen
and then people that want that thing or
that might be good at building that
thing can just focus on that and not
have to worry about all the rest of the
stuff that's mostly documentation and
project management stuff that that we
haven't gone there with but I think if
we set ourselves up in this cord to do
this then we're gonna be able to scale
the development pretty dramatically and
you think of this is becoming also RFP
worthy stuff where we can say you know
what we really need a visual transports
because I want to like aim two phones up
each other and like visual like QR codes
it's like the only thing that like I can
use in this crazy setting but I don't
really have the time to go do this so
I'm gonna like yeah hire some other
group that can do this that doesn't know
that much about loop it would be
necessarily but have a well scope than a
project that they can dive into the code
and build that one thing and then and
then go off and I think this if we if we
do this well then we can scale the
development of all the stuff very
effectively in the next in the coming
year so you know here are some ideas of
working groups we might we might form
there's more but things like testing and
visualization testing here being like
large-scale now we're testing and then
starting to think about use cases so let
me to keep lipid b4 blockchains lipid b4
browsers OS
filesystems mobile there's a lot of
things there those were five that I
think are high in my mind and we are
we're gonna be trying out a thing around
projects and I think Michael touched on
this more later but or on earth we will
but I'll just mention now this idea of
just scoping scoping up things like that
Bluetooth transport into a well-defined
work package that's not great word we're
gonna project is a better word it will
define project that describes all the
different things that would have to
happen like different modules and maybe
different languages dealing with certain
libraries or maybe having to write a
library and so on and then we'll have
kind of like a registry of these
projects that we think are important to
do and then that will allow us to
prioritize and say you know what like
all these downstream users really need
you know I to pee or something or really
need bluetooth so we need to like lift
us lift up this project and maybe
sonography maybe which is resources that
internally or whatever but getting to
that that kind of like project
management structure will will again
help us parent license scale the
development process where because all of
the lipid B modules are so many you
don't need a lot of people working on
some specific things won't need all that
context and so this is why we're doing
this is what we're experimenting with
this kind of structure and the last
thing I'll mention is hey we should have
a lot of fun damn it
a lot of us hack on these things because
it's pretty awesome to do some of the
stuff like being able to build like it
creates a network in the browser that
could you know have millions of browsers
connected to each other and have you're
playing a game or something that kind of
awesome hacks I think we need to do more
of let p2p is now at a point to support
that kind of stuff I love seeing like
random things like this where you know
somebody will post a link and they'll be
like this crazy you know to test out of
the HD implementation you'd leave your
browser open and you know it starts
doing a bunch of requests and it could
maybe you can visualize a network and
then this is a way that we can get also
a lot more people engaged and and
thinking about the the cool things that
can happen with these these systems so I
think we should just put a bit more time
and effort into into letting you know
doing this kind of stuff like it's
wow it sounds like I'm saying hey work
hard on having fun but but really just
about celebrating more what what we're
doing and yeah telling the world about
it
all right so I think that and and I
wanted to touch on kind of what protocol
so we're thinking through how do we
interface like organist there's like the
project and this organizations that are
doing work with the project here's like
an example of like what protocol labs
what protoss priorities might be or if
you think of that as a working group
what we want to want to do in the
short-term so you know recruit full-time
engineers that can work on the PDP as a
whole things there are certain features
and requirements around pub/sub and so
on that will be really useful for for
falkland and other projects as well and
so will you know focus on that kind of
stuff and then security audits like it's
something that we want to do across the
networking stack yeah great that's
that's it you have any questions or if
you have time for questions I think we
have one minute for questions
[Applause]
yep
hye-won I have a question about I guess
just a pipian ipfs like philosophy you
know w talked about the PTP being like a
location oh sorry no content addressed
assistant means have a location address
system do you guys see a way to kind of
still attach location addressing somehow
into the system or is this kind of just
like think we're gonna try to think
about things from a completely different
standpoint that you know the things that
we think about today a stuff like
geolocation and and you know pops or
like things like that aren't really like
a good paradigm to think about things in
so I guess is the question are we open
to exploring new kinds of ways of doing
networking where you're doing the
addressing by other things like yeah
like geolocation or something like that
don't sound awesome and interesting and
we should explore them no question I
think what uh where we're at now is the
the core lowest level of the p2p like
why is it a ways that a circuit switch
thing and not a packet switch thing it's
a circuit switch thing because in
2014-15 it was quite difficult to think
about doing packet switching in the
browser or packet switching in a bunch
of context where Nats and all its
firewalls and middle boxes and so on
prevent anything that isn't TCP / IP or
UDP over IP or like you know TLS and and
you know quick kind of like bus through
that but a ton of other product
protocols failed like SSDP and so on so
in that world we have to think of like
saying okay great like we have to layer
stuff over these these protocols that
exist now and start piping our stuff
over all of that and just for simplicity
that should be a circuit switched
Network to begin with but packet
switching is like is coming right and so
similarly other kinds of networking
ideas like perhaps some of the content
centric networking stuff or come to an
address networking stuff back from ndn
and and other you know x IA I don't know
if you've heard about these systems but
they're all remanded imaginings of
if you were to build the Internet today
from scratch like the if you were to
redesign the network layer of the
Internet like the IP layer of the
Internet
would you do it by just doing these
processes address or these host
addresses or would you do it with
something completely different and we
should absolutely explore that kind of
stuff I think it would be that's kind of
like a track and that would be kind of a
working group idea if there's enough
people interested we can form those
kinds of working groups but yeah it'll
be demand driven as opposed to you know
explicitly forcing forcing yourself to
go in that direction a priori a big
priority for us is to you know what if
is already used by a lot of groups and
so we want to get we want to make sure
that the the a large amount of our
bandwidth goes into supporting those
those users but yeah we should explore
that ok awesome talk thank you one I
know there's probably
[Applause]